# W2;L2

## Roles

**Grammatical roles**: Subject, object

**Semantic roles:** Agent, experiencer, etc.

## Argument Structure

Languages have different syntactic roles which affect the structure of the arguments.

English is a bit rare in that it allows non-agents to be subjects.

- You can say "I cut my finger" rather than "My finger was cut"
- Or "I am cold" rather than "I feel cold" (experiencer)

Some languages do **not** have an agentive subject.

- Asante Twi does not have a word for "I" in the subject sense
- "I am hungry" is something like "Hunger of me" (ekom de me)

Agentive example: I killed him

Non-agentive: I am slipping

## Agreement

Subject and verb agreement

Object and verb agreement

- In Swahili, there is object agreement but it is related to the grammatical rule, and not the semantic role

John broke the glass.

- Subject = John
- Object = the glass
- Agent = John
- Patient = the glass

The glass was broken by John

- Subject = The glass
- Object = John
- Agent = John
- Patient = the glass

Notice that the subject and object **do change**, but the **semantic roles do not** because semantic roles express the meaning of the sentence (the existence of the situation being described) while grammatical roles express the syntax of the sentence.

## Morphological Case Marking

Latin

*puer 		homin-e 		planxit*

boy.NOM	man-ACC		hit.3.SG

"The boy hit the man."

*homo 		puer-um 		planxit*

man.NOM	boy-ACC		hit.3.SG

"The man hit the boy."

## Sentence Types

1. **Declarative** - Makes a statement
2. **Interrogative** - Asks a question
3. **Active** - Agent == subject
4. **Passive** - Agent != subject

## Pragmatics

> The unspoken meaning of the language. Not just what you are saying literally, but its interpretation.

Example: When you say "I'm cold" that means to ppl around you "Close the window" or "Offer your jacket." When you're having a conversation, you say "OH! I'm late." and that means "I have to go."

- People who are "socially awkward" often do not understand the pragmatic use of language.